A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Female cats are polyestrous
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.
Cats walk on their toes.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
